In the interest of time,
let's gonna through together and
talk about some possible solutions.
Again, there might be more than
one way to solve each of these.
So your mileage may vary, but
let's go through and see some solutions.
Okay, so for this filter function,
we thought we have [COUGH] this kind
of recursive implementation of this
filter function where we're successively
filtering things in an array.
And we take in that predicate function,
where that predicate function again,
it's gonna be something that takes in
a single value and returns a boolean.
So we've got some of these
predicate functions like isEven.
You might have solved this different ways.
But one way you could solve this is by
using the modulo operator in JavaScript,
so to see whether or not there's
something leftover when you divide
this number by two and
if not, then it's even.
So that's one implementation that
will get these little to show up.
And how about the odds function?
Well, if odd is kind of the opposite
of even then we could pass in
our predicate function that
basically returns the opposite of
whatever is even returns, so
that's one way we could do this.
We could also maybe have implemented
this more directly like this but
with a not equal.
Or there might have been other solutions,
but
these are two that you could have used.
And then for the greaterThanFour
function we could have used and
you might wanna do a short
little arrow function here.
Which is handy for working in functional
programming in JavaScript because you
don't have to keep typing that
function keyword all the time.
So arrows, they came in with ES6 syntax,
are super handy for
doing functional programming.
And if you haven't worked with those
a lot, I encourage you to use these
examples to kind of get a sense for
how that syntax feels.
So we might use the greater than
operator to take in a number and
then return the boolean for whether or
not that number is greater than four.
Any questions so far?
Great.
Okay, so then a little bit more
complicated one is this isPrime function.
Now there are lots of different
ways you could have done this.
Here's one way, so
again cheating a little bit because I know
kind of what the types of values
are that we're gonna get here.
I took in the this this array
with all these whole numbers and
I declared it inside of this function, so
that we don't have to look anywhere
in the outside world for this.
And now you might be wondering
in a real life isPrime,
I probably wanna be able to figure
this out for things that go above 10.
But in some functional
programming languages,
you might be able to work with
things like lazy evaluated sequence,
that's a term to type into
the search engine later.
You might be able to work with
sequences that can give you
an array like this of
whatever length you need.
Because thanks to
functional programming and
this concept of only returning
an element from a sequence,
when it's actually asked for.
We could get something that would work,
that would be a version of this
implementation that could work for
even even higher numbers.
This one will be pretty limited in
what it's gonna be accurate for.
But in any case, so given some kind of
sequence of like whole numbers, what I'm
doing and again, this is just how I solved
it, yours might be totally different.
What I'm doing is I'm figuring
out some possible factors.
Where basically the number
that's coming in,
we have to find some kind of
number that's between one and
that number n,
that might be a factor of n.
So what I'm doing is kind of
filtering down this wholes array so
that we're getting things that are between
one and whatever my end number is.
And then taking those possible factors,
I'm determining which of
them actually are factors.
By using this filter function, which,
similar to our isEven function
uses modulo to find out whether
n is perfectly divisible by m,
and then and oopsie.
I'm using a method here instead
of my function, that's better,
that's more functional.
Then I'm just checking to see if
there's anything in this factors array.
If there is then that means that this
number is divisible by more than just
itself and one which by the definition
of a prime number means it's not prime.
So essentially we only have a prime
number if that factors array is zero.
So this i thought was an interesting
function to implement
as a predicate function because
we can actually use filter
inside of a predicate function
that then we can pass to filter.
So this is again, this is when we start
getting used to working with arrays,
excuse me working with these
tools like filter map and reduce,
and working with functions that we
can pass around to other functions.
You may find a lot of the time this is
almost like a type of kind of multi
level filtering that's happening,
where we're using filter
to actually help us define functions
that we can pass into a filter.
So it's sort of like an aura boris,
a filter in here.
Again, your implementation may
have looked different, but
as long as you're using pure functions.
And as long as you're trying
to avoid those array method,
object oriented style method APIs and
use these helper functions that we
defined, you should be good to go